```@meta
EditURL = "https://github.com/simonsobs/PSpipe/tree/planckcov/project/Planck_cov/docs/src/index.md"
```

# Introduction

This is a Simons Observatory pipeline for computing the spectra and covariances of the
[Planck 2018](https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.12875) high-``\ell`` likelihood. Default
settings have been chosen to reproduce the official ``\texttt{plic}`` analysis. The
code is also described in Li et al. (in prep). **Each page
is directly generated from a source file used in the pipeline**, in the style of
[literate programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Literate_programming). Each source
file can be located on the [PSPipe GitHub](https://github.com/simonsobs/PSpipe) using the
*Edit on GitHub* link on the top of every page.

* All executed code within a pipeline component is displayed in light orange code blocks.
* Comments in the pipeline components are rendered as markdown.
* The rendered pages are run on low-resolution *Planck* 2018 half-mission maps and masks
  at 143 GHz, generated by averaging down to ``n_{\mathrm{side}} = 256``.
* At the top of each page, we provide examples for how to run the pipeline component
  on the *Planck* data.
* For the full analysis described in Li et al. (in prep), consult the pages on Slurm
  files and cluster use.

The map/alm handling routines for this project were contributed into
the [Healpix.jl](https://ziotom78.github.io/Healpix.jl/dev/) package, and the
mode-coupling and covariance matrix calculations were added to
[PowerSpectra.jl](https://xzackli.github.io/PowerSpectra.jl/dev/).
This pipeline mostly wrangles data and calls the routines from those packages.

## Overview

The pipeline operates on the Planck maps, and generates estimates of the spectra and 
covariances. A pipeline really boils down to a series of command-line arguments which one
executes on some computing cluster with a job manager like SLURM. The files in this 
pipeline are generally written to be executed with some command-line arguments. 
Each step of this pipeline will look something like

```@raw html
<pre class="shell">
<code class="language-shell hljs">$ julia scriptname.jl example.toml [more arguments...]</code></pre>
```

We now provide a review of the different steps that go into this spectrum pipeline.

1. [`setup`](@ref setup) downloads the Planck data, and also sets up some packages. This requires an internet connection, so you would typically run this on a head node.
2. [`rawspectra`](@ref rawspectra) computes the basic spectra, by performing mode-decoupling on the pseudo-``C_{\ell}``. This step also combines the missing pixels and the input likelihood mask, which it saves. These combined masks are used hereafter.
3. [`fitnoisemodel`](@ref fitnoisemodel) estimates the noise power spectrum from the difference between the auto- and cross-spectra of the half-mission frequency maps. It then fits a smooth model to the estimated spectrum.
4. [`signalsim`](@ref signalsim) generates spectra from signal-only simulations, which are used to correct for the effect of insufficiently-apodized point source holes in the mask.
5. [`corrections`](@ref corrections) computes the correction to the covariance matrix obtained from the signal-only simulations in `signalsim`.
6. [`whitenoise`](@ref whitenoise) estimates the noise power spectrum if the Planck noise was white, from the pixel variance maps.
7. [`covmat`](@ref covmat) computes covariance matrices between different spectra in the likelihood data vector, using as inputs the noise model from `noisemodel`, the corrections from the signal simulations in `corrections`, and the white-noise levels found in `whitenoise`. 

Lists of commands used to run this pipeline with the job manager SLURM are available in [`slurmgen`](@ref slurmgen).

