**************************
Computing S17-S19 spectra
**************************

Here are some specific instructions to compute spectra for s17-s19 at NERSC.
Since it is a lot of spectra computation, we are going to make full use of MPI capacities.
The current dictionnary is called ``global_s171819.dict`` and is given in the ``paramfiles`` folder.
Then, we can use the codes in the ``python`` folder to run the pipeline sequentially.
Here we give instructions to run the full thing on interactive nodes, you can of course also submit it to NERSC standard nodes
Note that the instructions are given for running the full data analysis of s17 to s19, if you want to test the pipeline, we recommend starting
with a subset of the data for example: ``global_pa6_s19.dict`` (this will be way faster).


First we need to create all the window functions. In the following we will assume that the window functions  used in temperature and in polarisation are the same, we will create the windows based on a the edges of the survey, a galactic mask, a pt source mask and a threshold on the amount of crosslinking in the patch of observation. For n seasons with m dichroic arrays (mx2 frequency maps), we will have N = n x m x 2  window functions.

.. code:: shell

    salloc -N 18 -C haswell -q interactive -t 00:30:00
    srun -n 18 -c 64 --cpu_bind=cores python quick_window_mpi.py global_s171819.dict

The next step is to precompute the mode coupling matrices associated with these window functions, we have N window functions corresponding to each (season X array a) data set, we will have to compute all the cross power spectra of the form
(season X array 1)  x (season Y array 2) there are therefore Ns = N * (N+1)/2 independent spectra to compute

.. code:: shell

    salloc -N 20 -C haswell -q interactive -t 01:30:00
    srun -n 20 -c 64 --cpu_bind=cores python get_mcm_and_bbl_mpi.py global_s171819.dict

Now we can compute all the power spectra, for this we won't use MPI, simply

.. code:: shell

    salloc -N 1 -C haswell -q interactive -t 04:00:00
    python get_spectra.py global_s171819.dict

This step in the pipeline will also be used at some point to compute power spectra of the simulations, the MPI loop then be on simulation id.

Finally, we need to compute the associated covariances of all these spectra, for this we need a model for the signal and noise power spectra

.. code:: shell

    salloc -N 1 -C haswell -q interactive -t 04:00:00
    python get_best_fit_mflike.py global_s171819.dict
    python get_noise_model.py global_s171819.dict

The computation of the covariance matrices is then divided into two steps, first compute all (window1 x window2) alms needed for the covariance computation, then the actual computation, note that there is Ns(Ns+1)/2 covariance matrix block to compute, this is enormous and is therefore the bottleneck of the spectra computation.


.. code:: shell

    salloc -N 20 -C haswell -q interactive -t 01:00:00
    srun -n 20 -c 64 --cpu_bind=cores python fast_cov_get_sq_windows_alms.py global_s171819.dict

    salloc -N 40 -C haswell -q interactive -t 04:00:00
    srun -n 40 -c 64 --cpu_bind=cores python fast_cov_get_covariance.py global_s171819.dict

We can now combine the data together, for this we run

.. code:: shell

    salloc -N 1 -C haswell -q interactive -t 04:00:00
    python get_multifrequency_covmat.py global_s171819.dict
    python get_projection_matrix.py global_s171819.dict
    python get_combined_spectra.py global_s171819.dict


We are done !

We have also implemented a simple simulation pipeline to check if the pipeline produce unbiased spectra and accurate analytical covariance matrices
to run it

.. code:: shell

    salloc -N 40 -C haswell -q interactive -t 04:00:00
    srun -n 40 -c 64 --cpu_bind=cores python mc_get_spectra.py global_s171819.dict

then to analyze and plot the simulations

.. code:: shell

    salloc -N 1 -C haswell -q interactive -t 01:00:00
    python mc_analysis.py global_s171819.dict
    python mc_plot_spectra.py global_s171819.dict
    python mc_plot_covariances.py global_s171819.dict

